h1. Quay Container Registry — Quadlet Deployment

Self-hosted [Project Quay|https://github.com/quay/quay] container registry running as Podman Quadlet systemd units. TLS is terminated directly by Quay (no reverse proxy).

----

h2. Architecture

{noformat}
Client ──HTTPS:8443──► Quay  (ssl.cert + ssl.key in config dir)
Client ──HTTP:8080 ──► Quay  (unencrypted, internal use only)
                         │
                 ┌───────┴────────┐
          PostgreSQL:5433      Redis:6379
         (quay-postgres)      (quay-redis)
{noformat}

All three services run in *host network* mode as Podman Quadlet containers managed by systemd.

|| Service || Image || Unit file ||
| Quay | {{quay.io/projectquay/quay:latest}} | {{quay.container}} |
| PostgreSQL | {{docker.io/library/postgres:15}} | {{quay-postgres.container}} |
| Redis | {{docker.io/library/redis:7}} | {{quay-redis.container}} |

----

h2. Directory layout

{noformat}
quay-quadlet/quay/
├── configs/
│   └── config.yaml            # Quay application config (edit before deploying)
├── quay.container             # Quadlet unit for Quay
├── quay-postgres.container    # Quadlet unit for PostgreSQL
├── quay-redis.container       # Quadlet unit for Redis
├── deploy-quay-local.sh       # Deploy on the machine you run the script on
├── deploy-quay-remote.sh      # Deploy to a remote server over SSH
├── setup_letsencrypt.sh       # Obtain TLS cert via Certbot + Cloudflare DNS
├── setup_renewal.sh           # Configure automatic cert renewal
└── cloudflare.ini             # Cloudflare API token for DNS-01 challenge
{noformat}

Data directories created on the host at deploy time:

|| Path || Purpose ||
| {{/home/mariam/app-data/quay/config}} | {{config.yaml}}, {{ssl.cert}}, {{ssl.key}} |
| {{/home/mariam/app-data/quay/storage}} | OCI blob / image layer storage |
| {{/home/mariam/app-data/quay/postgres}} | PostgreSQL data (owned by UID 999) |

----

h2. Pre-deployment checklist

# *Generate secrets* and update {{configs/config.yaml}}:

{code:language=bash}
openssl rand -hex 32   # run twice — once for DATABASE_SECRET_KEY, once for SECRET_KEY
{code}

Values to set in {{configs/config.yaml}}:

|| Key || Description ||
| {{DATABASE_SECRET_KEY}} | Random 64-char hex string |
| {{SECRET_KEY}} | Random 64-char hex string |
| {{DB_URI}} | PostgreSQL DSN — password must match step 2 |
| {{SERVER_HOSTNAME}} | Public FQDN, e.g. {{quay.arvhomelab.com:8443}} |

# *Set the database password* in {{quay-postgres.container}}:

{code:language=ini}
Environment=POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<same password as in DB_URI>
{code}

# *Populate {{cloudflare.ini}}* with a Cloudflare API token scoped to DNS edit on your zone (needed by {{setup_letsencrypt.sh}}):

{code:language=ini}
dns_cloudflare_api_token = <your-token>
{code}

----

h2. Deploying

h3. On the local machine

{code:language=bash}
./deploy-quay-local.sh
{code}

With optional admin user creation on first deploy:

{code:language=bash}
QUAY_ADMIN_PASSWORD='yourpassword' ./deploy-quay-local.sh
{code}

h3. To a remote server over SSH

{code:language=bash}
./deploy-quay-remote.sh              # deploys to all configured servers
./deploy-quay-remote.sh infra-lb1    # deploys to a specific server
{code}

With optional admin user creation:

{code:language=bash}
QUAY_ADMIN_PASSWORD='yourpassword' ./deploy-quay-remote.sh
{code}

Both scripts:
# Copy the Quadlet unit files to {{/etc/containers/systemd/}}
# Create data directories and install {{config.yaml}}
# Copy Let's Encrypt scripts and Cloudflare credentials to {{$APP_DATA_DIR}}
# Reload systemd and start services in dependency order (postgres → redis → quay)
# Wait for each service to become healthy before proceeding
# Run smoke tests against the HTTP/HTTPS endpoints

----

h2. TLS certificates

TLS is terminated directly by Quay. Certificates live in the config directory as {{ssl.cert}} and {{ssl.key}}.

*First-time setup* (after deploying):

{code:language=bash}
cd /home/mariam/app-data/quay
./setup_letsencrypt.sh    # obtains cert via Certbot DNS-01 + Cloudflare, installs into config dir
./setup_renewal.sh        # registers a certbot deploy hook to restart quay on renewal
{code}

Until certificates are installed Quay serves HTTP only on port 8080.

----

h2. Service management

{code:language=bash}
# Status
systemctl status quay-postgres.service quay-redis.service quay.service

# Logs
sudo journalctl -u quay.service -f
sudo journalctl -u quay-postgres.service -f

# Restart
sudo systemctl restart quay-postgres.service quay-redis.service quay.service

# Stop (reverse dependency order)
sudo systemctl stop quay.service quay-redis.service quay-postgres.service
{code}

----

h2. Using the registry

{code:language=bash}
# Login
podman login quay.arvhomelab.com:8443

# Pull through the proxy cache
podman pull quay.arvhomelab.com/docker.io/library/nginx:latest

# Push an image
podman tag myimage:latest quay.arvhomelab.com/<org>/<repo>:latest
podman push quay.arvhomelab.com/<org>/<repo>:latest
{code}

Web UI: *https://quay.arvhomelab.com*

----

h2. Notable configuration

|| Setting || Value ||
| {{PREFERRED_URL_SCHEME}} | {{https}} |
| {{EXTERNAL_TLS_TERMINATION}} | {{false}} (Quay handles TLS) |
| {{FEATURE_ANONYMOUS_ACCESS}} | {{false}} |
| {{FEATURE_USER_CREATION}} | {{true}} |
| {{MAXIMUM_LAYER_SIZE}} | {{20G}} |
| {{DEFAULT_TAG_EXPIRATION}} | {{2w}} |
| PostgreSQL port | {{5433}} (non-default, avoids conflicts) |
| Redis port | {{6379}} |
